HORST - Horsts OLSR Radio Scanning Tool
---------------------------------------
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Bruno Randolf
Licensed under the GNU Public License (GPL) V2

"horst" is a scanning and analysis tool for IEEE802.11 wireless ad-hoc (IBSS)
networks and the OLSR mesh routing protocol. it can be used discover the best
OLSR nodes in the neighbourhood, to optimize antenna positions and to discover
problems in the mesh network.

with the usual wireless tools like iwconfig and iwspy (and even kismet) it is
hard to measure the received signal strength (SNR or RSSI) for each of the
*different* nodes which form an ad-hoc network, since they all treat the whole
IBSS as one. this information however is very important for setting up,
debugging and optimizing wireless mesh networks.

"horst" aims to fill this gap and lists each single node of an ad-hoc network
seperately, showing the signal strength (SNR) of the last received packet. this
way you can see which nodes are part of a specific ad-hoc cell (BSSID), discover
problems with ad-hoc cell merging ("cell splitting" - a problem of many wlan
drivers), which of the nodes send OLSR packets, wether they use the OLSR link
quality exension, how many neighbors they see, etc.

to do this, it uses the monitor mode including prism2 or radiotap headers (for
the signal strength information) of the wlan cards and listens to all packets
which come in the wireless interface. these packets are scanned for OLSR traffic
and summarized by the MAC address of the sending node, and displayed in a simple
text (ncurses) interface. [actually what it does is quite similar to kismet, and
in might be a good idea to include this functionality into kismet.]

it should work with any wlan card which can do monitor mode, with either
"prism2" or "radiotap" headers.

you have to put your card in monitor mode and set the channel manually before
you start the tool (it does not rotate channels like kismet):

1.) put card in monitor mode:
	hostap:
	# iwconfig wlan0 mode monitor

	madwifi:
	# wlanconfig wlan0 create wlandev wifi0 wlanmode monitor

2.) for hostap: enable prism headers in monitor mode
	# iwpriv wlan0 monitor_type 1

3.) tune to a channel
	# iwconfig wlan0 channel 10
	# ifconfig wlan0 up

4.) start tool
	# ./horst
